# TP3-DeCryptii-
Project Description
For my 15112 term project I decided to make an encryption and decryption game, deCryptii. This game has 49 levels that requires the user to have an almost perfect run in order to win the entire game. In order to enhance the user experience there are many hurdles and aids. The firs hurdle is that if the user makes a mistake they will lose a live, the user has three lives to finish a level, once the level is completed they will have 3 lives again. Users can play earlier levels but will not gain lives for completing previous levels. There is also a practice mode with an interactive visualizers in which the user will learn more about a specific cipher and practice. The user can enter the practice mode and not loose their progress in the game unless they exit out of the game completely.

How to run the project
To run the project, open the tp3.py file and make sure cmu_112_graphics is in the same folder as the tp3.py file. In my zip file this is the case. Additionally numpy is needed in order to run this. If there is trouble downloading numpy if you comment out the sections for finding the modular matrix inverse for decoding hill. The entire program will run perfectly fine and will just be unable to decode the hill cipher. If lines 646-719 are commented out, the program will still run perfectly fine.The link below goes through how to install numpy, once installed there is nothing special that needs to be done, just hit command b and everything will work. 
https://numpy.org/install/

How to play and shortcuts:
The game has instructions on every page the user sees so if anything goes wrong from my instructions, there are always instructions on the screen of the game. To startup the game from the tp3.py file just press control b and you will be all set to start playing. Once the game starts it will prompt to a string with two buttons. One leads to practice and the other to start the game. If you press on game mode it will show a big white screen where the user will have to decrypt an easy message, it is 'welcome to ciphering!'. A short cut that can be taking from the first page is press 's' then you will jump right away to the level page. Once on the level page if you want to access all levels and not have to play all of them to check, press 'u' and all the levels will get unlocked. Those are the only two shortcuts but other than that everything is self explanatory and there are a lot of buttons and instructions to help if the user gets lost.
